# 1.0 Different Equation Basic

## Order

1. The order of a different equation is the largest derivatice present in the differential equation. 

$$
\begin{align}
m \frac{d v}{d t}=F(t, v) \tag{1}\\
a y^{\prime \prime}+b y^{\prime}+c y=g(t)  \tag{2}\\
\sin (y) \frac{d^2 y}{d x^2}=(1-y) \frac{d y}{d x}+y^2 \mathbf{e}^{-5 y} \tag{3}
\end{align}
$$

Equation (1), is first order different equation, and (2)(3) is second order different equation



## Ordinary and Partial Differential Equation

1. If the equation has ordinary derivatices in it, then we call it **ordinary differential equation**.
2. If the equation has partial derivatives in it, then we call it **partial differential equation**.

$$
\begin{align}
y^{(4)}+10 y^{\prime \prime \prime}-4 y^{\prime}+2 y=\cos (t) \tag{1}\\
\alpha^2 \frac{\partial^2 u}{\partial x^2}=\frac{\partial u}{\partial t} \tag{2}
\end{align}
$$

Equation (1) is ODE, and (2) is PDE



## Linear Differential Equations

1. A **Linear differential equation** is any differential equation that can be written in the following form:

$$
a_n(t) y^{(n)}(t)+a_{n-1}(t) y^{(n-1)}(t)+\cdots+a_1(t) y^{\prime}(t)+a_0(t) y(t)=g(t) \tag{1}
$$

The important thing to note abuoot linear differential equation is that there are no products of the function, $y(t)$, and its derivatives and neither the function or its derivatives occur to any power other than the first power. Also note that neither the function or its derivatives are "insider" another function, for example, $\sqrt y$ or $e^y$.



2. If a differential equation cannot be written in the form (1), then it is called a non-linear differential equation.



## Solution 

1. A **solution** to a differential equation on an interval $α<t<β$ is any function $y(t)$ which satisfies the differential equation in question on the interval $α<t<β$. It is important to note that solutions are often accompanied by intervals and these intervals can impart some important information about the solution.

### Example 1: 

Show that $y(x) = x^{-\frac{3}{2}}$ is the solution to $4 x^2 y^{\prime \prime}+12 x y^{\prime}+3 y=0$ for $x>0$. 

Solution: First we need to know $y^\prime$ and $y^{\prime\prime}$.
$$
y^\prime = -\frac{3}{2} x^{-\frac{5}{2}}\\
y^{\prime\prime} = \frac{15}{4}x^{-\frac{7}{2}}
$$
Then we can plug the $y^\prime$ and $y^{\prime\prime}$ in the equation.
$$
\begin{aligned}
4 x^2\left(\frac{15}{4} x^{-\frac{7}{2}}\right)+12 x\left(-\frac{3}{2} x^{-\frac{5}{2}}\right)+3\left(x^{-\frac{3}{2}}\right) &=0 \\
15 x^{-\frac{3}{2}}-18 x^{-\frac{3}{2}}+3 x^{-\frac{3}{2}} &=0 \\
0 &=0
\end{aligned}
$$
Then we can know $y(x) = x^{-\frac{3}{2}}$ is the solution of the equation.

**So why we need the condition** $x> 0$. Since the equation is $y(x) = x^{-\frac{3}{2}} = \frac{1}{\sqrt{x^3}}$. In this form we need $x\neq 0$ 



## Initial Condition

1. Initial Condition are a condition, or a set of conditions, on the solution that will allow us to determine which solution that we are after.
2. **Initial Value Problem**: is a differential equation along with an appropriate number of initial conditions.





## General Solution

The **general solution** to a differential equation is the most general form that the solution can take and doesn't take any initial conditions into account. 